Hi everybody and welcome back.
Now in this lecture we're going to be looking at how to set a default value for an attribute.
So every attribute in a class needs an initial value even if that value is zero or an empty string.
When setting a default value it makes sense to specify this initial value in the body of the init method.
If we do this for an attribute we don't have to include a parameter for that attribute.
So we are going to add in a default value for a new attribute here.
So we're going to go self does and what is it going to be when going to be a library count.
So this is going to count how many books we have in our the library.
I'm going to set the default value of this to zero.
And that makes sense because when you buy a new Kindle you're not going to have any books in it.
So the initial amount of books in your Kindle library is going to be zero.
And because we've done it here and we've set a default value to zero we don't have to put in a new parameter
up here.
So we just add in an attribute called Library count that always start with a value of zero.
We're also adding Now a new method that helps us read each Kindles library count.
So let's do that here Jeff.
And let's call this reed library helpful if I spelt it right.
Redelivery count OK.
Colon and let's describe this method.
So show the amount of e-books in our Kindle library every go close that.
So what we wanted to show.
Well if anybody is familiar with e-readers you know that under homescreen it'll say on this device or
in this library are 20 books 50 books 101 books.
But obviously as we have just created this e-reader the amount of books in the library is going to be
zero.
You have them we go plus now it's going to be a string because we're putting as self does library count
plus.
So you have there could be zero copy panicle be 20 books in your Kindle for Kindle library.
There we go.
So what we want to do now.
Well now we have a lockdown here.
We can leave as we have in our last lecture my new e-reader alone we can leave print my new e-reader
get you either name or not we want to do is we want to again call our new e-reader.
And we wanted to read our library count brackets that's around us and see what we got.
There we go.
So we have like from our last lecture our big descriptive name and then we have zero books in Arkana
library.
So we have zero books on that again.
You have zero books and your Kindle library.
So obviously as we download books that'll go to one two three four and we'll look at something about
doing that later.
So it can cause the end of matter to create a new instance it stores to make the model of the backlight
the battery the screen type as attributes like it did in the previous example then pipe and create a
new attribute called Library count which we have here.
That line 15 and it set its initial value to zero.
We also have a new method called Read library count at line 22.
There we go.
So I hope all that made sense.
As always if you have any questions please don't hesitate to contact me and I'll see you in the next
lecture.
Thank you.